What is Machine Learning?
Machine Learning is the field of study that gives computers the capability to learn without being explicitly programmed. ML is one of the most exciting technologies that one would have ever come across. As it is evident from the name, it gives the computer that makes it more similar to humans: The ability to learn.

Applications of Machine Learning include:
Web Search Engine: One of the reasons why search engines like google, bing etc work so well is because the system has learnt how to rank pages through a complex learning algorithm.
Photo tagging Applications: Be it facebook or any other photo tagging application, the ability to tag friends makes it even more happening. It is all possible because of a face recognition algorithm that runs behind the application.
Spam Detector: Our mail agent like Gmail or Hotmail does a lot of hard work for us in classifying the mails and moving the spam mails to spam folder. This is again achieved by a spam classifier running in the back end of mail application.

Supervised Machine Learning
Supervised machine learning as the name indicates the presence of a supervisor as a teacher. Basically supervised learning is a learning in which we teach or train the machine using data which is well labeled that means some data is already tagged with the correct answer. After that, the machine is provided with a new set of examples(data) so that supervised learning algorithm analyses the training data(set of training examples) and produces a correct outcome from labeled data.

Unsupervised Machine Learning
Unsupervised learning is the training of machine using information that is neither classified nor labeled and allowing the algorithm to act on that information without guidance. Here the task of machine is to group unsorted information according to similarities, patterns and differences without any prior training of data.  Unlike supervised learning, no teacher is provided that means no training will be given to the machine. Therefore machine is restricted to find the hidden structure in unlabeled data by our-self.

Types of Supervised Machine Learning Algorithms
Different types of supervised machine learning algorithms are- Linear Regression,Logistic Regression, Classification,Naïve Bayes Classifiers,Decision Trees,Support Vector Machine

Types of Unsupervised Machine Learning Algorithms
Different types of supervised machine learning algorithms are- Hierarchical clustering,K-means clustering,K-NN (k nearest neighbors),Principal Component Analysis,Singular Value Decomposition,Independent Component Analysis